README.md, before:

# Card Detection and Classification

This project detects playing cards from a live camera feed using a YOLO model for object detection and a CNN for card rank and suit classification.

---

## Features

- Detects cards in real-time using YOLO.  
- Classifies rank (A, 2–10, J, Q, K) and suit (Clubs, Diamonds, Hearts, Spades) using a CNN.  
- Displays bounding boxes and predicted labels on the live camera feed.  
- Evaluate CNN performance using `python two-stagecode/CNN_test.py` to view accuracy and confusion matrix.
- Confusion matrices for both rank and suit are provided below.

---

## Example Outputs

### Rank CNN Confusion Matrix
![Rank CNN](CNNData/Rank_CNN_confusion_matrix.png)

### Suit CNN Confusion Matrix
![Suit CNN](CNNData/Suit_CNN_confusion_matrix.png)

---
## Setup

### 1. Create a Virtual Environment

It is recommended to create a virtual environment before installing dependencies:

```bash
# Create a virtual environment named projectenv
python -m venv projectenv

# Activate the environment
# On macOS/Linux:
source projectenv/bin/activate
# On Windows:
projectenv\Scripts\activate


# If running into issues for ultralytics do the following 
# Install the ultralytics package from GitHub
pip install git+https://github.com/ultralytics/ultralytics.git@main

Commit message:

edited readme and ran code to test if it is still working

README.md, after:

# Card Detection and Classification

This project detects playing cards from a live camera feed using a YOLO model for object detection and a CNN for card rank and suit classification.

---

## Features

- Detects cards in real-time using YOLO.  
- Classifies rank (A, 2–10, J, Q, K) and suit (Clubs, Diamonds, Hearts, Spades) using a CNN.  
- Displays bounding boxes and predicted labels on the live camera feed.  
- you need to create an enviorment before running anything look below for the code to do so
- Evaluate CNN performance using `python two-stagecode/CNN_test.py` to view accuracy and confusion matrix.
- Confusion matrices for both rank and suit are provided below.
- To run the camera you need to use `python two-stagecode/Live_camera.py`

---

## Example Outputs

### Rank CNN Confusion Matrix
![Rank CNN](CNNData/Rank_CNN_confusion_matrix.png)

### Suit CNN Confusion Matrix
![Suit CNN](CNNData/Suit_CNN_confusion_matrix.png)

---
## Setup

### 1. Create a Virtual Environment

It is recommended to create a virtual environment before installing dependencies:

```bash
# Create a virtual environment named projectenv
python -m venv projectenv

# Activate the environment
# On macOS/Linux:
source projectenv/bin/activate
# On Windows:
projectenv\Scripts\activate


# If running into issues for ultralytics do the following 
# Install the ultralytics package from GitHub
pip install git+https://github.com/ultralytics/ultralytics.git@main
